{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red10\green0\blue109;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
\cssrgb\c4314\c0\c50196;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww37900\viewh19880\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 Sept. 28 \'96 F \'96 Lec 0\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Introduction: Computer History + Basic
\f0\b0 \
\
A computer consists of:\
	1. a central processing unit (CPU) is the electronic circuitry that carries out the instructions of a computer program \
	2. a random-access memory (RAM) a form of computer data storage that stores data and machine code currently being used\
	3. input (e.g. keyboard) and output (e.g. screen) devices\
	4. ...\
\
The only function of a memory: hold values (a collection of numbers) \'93store\'94 and \'93view\'94 values. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 (The only values that can be stored in memory is integer in binary system.)\cf0 \
\
\
How can we store numbers like 43.29? \
>> We can use 2 integers (integer part of the number and fraction part of the number). \
>> We can use a rational number to represent it \'96 a denominator and a numerator. \
>> We can also use scientific notation.\
\
How to represent a string (an English word)?  \
>> We can assign each character to a corresponding number. \
>> ASCII (\cf3 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
American Standard Code for Information Interchange) is a\'a0\cf5 character encoding\cf3 \'a0standard for electronic communication.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  \
>> IBM uses another one, EBCDIC. \
>> In 1990, we got the Unicode, an encoding scheme for all languages around the world. \
\
How to represent audios?\
>> We can detect the change of air pressure by using a microphone and then sampling (ADC).\
>> If we can sample frequently enough, we get enough information from the audio.\
\
How to store picture? \
>> we can use pixels (high resolution means better quality). \
\
How to store videos? \
>> store pictures frame by frame (usually 24f/s). \
>> From one frame to another, most of the pixels are the same, so, in this way, we can compress the video.\
\
\
\
\
\
}