{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red251\green2\blue7;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c14913\c0;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww37900\viewh19880\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 Oct. 1 - M - Lec 1\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Computer Science History
\f0\b0 \
\
# ---------------------------------------- 1950 ---------------------------------------- #\
\
Programming in 1950s was a pain.\
\
Machine Language: the only language computer can operate. send/get number: that's all it could do.\
\
\cf2 It was easy to make mistakes! Type; data location, operation code...\cf0 \
\
When people write programs, they make notes, use (English) words to remember what they are going to do.\
\
Program: assembly (symbolic) language -> machine language. (more details in CS 33)\
\
Assembly language: a program written in assembly language is said to be assembled into a machine language program by an assembler. (CS 33)\
\
Basic idea: one-for-one replacement for machine language. A name is corresponding to a number.\
\
\
# ---------------------------------------- 1960 ---------------------------------------- #\
\
Each mode (computer, or CPU) they (different computer manufacturers, like IBM) made had its own machine language (different structures and instructions), so customers will be locked into a particular vender. Luckily, each company will try to be consistent with their previous model.\
\
We want some language that doesn't tie to a certain machine!!! (FORTRAN)\
\
		**************************	*\
		* C/FORTRAN/PASCAL			*		\
		* high level language		*-- \cf3 high level programming\cf0 \
		* assembly language			*-- \cf2 low level programming\cf0 \
		* machines language			*\
		**************************	*\
\
High level assembly language: a program written in a higher level language is 
\f1\b compiled
\f0\b0  into a machine language program by a 
\f1\b compiler
\f0\b0 .\
\
FORTRAN compiler: \
>> step 1: translate intermediate level language (assembly language)\
												|\
												V\
										machine language\
>> step 2: execute the program\
\
A compile is going to compile a language into assembly language. Computer time was very expensive at 1970's. \
Modern compiler is more efficient than programming directly in assembly language.\
\
	C language\
			->	assembly language\
							-> machine language\
\
# ---------------------------------------- 1970 and Later ---------------------------------------- #\
\
1971: language C -> C++ Objective C (1980s C++ won).\
(we have more than 2000 programming languages now)\
\
1985: C++ became available to the world. People from different parts of the worlds were all writing C++ compilers. \
Lots of dialects of C++ emerged, which was a problem. \cf2 We need a standard for C++!\cf0 \
\
1998 - ISO C++ standard (C++98)\
2011 - revision (C++11)\
2014 - revision (C++14)\
2020 - expected (C++20)\
\
# ---------------------------------------- Programming Language ---------------------------------------- #\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9323\tx10050\tx10819\tx11600\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Human Lang.			Prog. Lang.		Machine Lang.	\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	English				C					binary system\
	Spanish				C++			\
	Italian				Java\
\
for human	\
	easy					medium				hard\
for comp.	\
	hard 					medium				easy\
\
\
}